TOPIC
    about_ACN

SHORT DESCRIPTION
    Introduces the Architecture for Control Networks standard.

LONG DESCRIPTION
    The Architecture for Control Networks (ACN) is a suite of network protocols for control of
    entertainment technology equipment.

    Application areas include live performance or large-scale installations, for example,
    lighting, audio or special effects equipment. ACN is maintained by the
    Entertainment Services and Technology Association (ESTA) and its first official release was
    « ANSI Standard E1.17-2006 - Entertainment Technology - Architecture for Control Networks ».

    The standard was subsequently revised and released as ANSI E1.17-2010. The current version
    is ANSI E1.17-2015, which is almost equal to the 2010 edition. This is at least true for the
    part of ACN used here, the ACN Device Description Language.

    Note: The ANSI standard documents of ACN are available for free (given an e-mail address)
    on the website of the ESTA.

ACN Device Description Language
    Apart from the suite of protocols, ACN contains a formal language for describing the (external)
    interface of a device, the *Device Description Language* (DDL). The generic syntax and data
    model of this language, make it a suitable language for a fieldbus-oriented description or
    specification of any electronic device.

    The Device Description Language (DDL) enables a machine readable description of the interface and
    capabilities of the device. This description can be interpreted by an external
    control system which may then automatically configure itself for controlling that device.

    The description not only provides the address and property mapping information which is necessary
    for a fieldbus protocol to operate but it can also contain a huge amount of information on the
    functionality, capabilities and semantics of the device in an extensible format which allows
    a controller to extract the features it needs for its specific context while skipping over
    information which is not relevant to its needs.

    The DDL description can also be used during the development process of the device itself, as
    formal specification of the data model of the device. The DDL can form the input for automated
    implementation of data structures, input/output handling, or other parts of the system.

    DDL is an XML based language and descriptions are contained in a number of XML documents,
    called *modules*. A module is one of three types:

    - <ddl:device>      - contains the description of a device, as a list of (nested)
                          properties and include-devices;

    - <ddl:behaviorset> - a list of 'behavior' definitions, the description of the
                          semantics of a property aspect;

    - <ddl:languageset> - a list of tagged strings with (natural) language specific
                          implementations.

    In normal ACN systems the description for a device may be downloaded from the device itself.
    However, descriptions may also be distributed in other ways (such as internet download) and since
    a description is valid for all devices of the same type, control systems can typically maintain a
    cache of descriptions for devices they commonly encounter.

    The main difference of the ACN DDL compared to similar languages of other fieldbus specifications
    is the very generic device model that is in the XML language itself. All application specifics
    are (and should be) specified in the behavior definitions. E.g. definitions of measurement units
    of properties are not in the XML language, but are defined as *behavior*.

    This makes the ACN DDL suitable as a meta language for many fieldbus applications outside of the
    entertainment world.

SEE ALSO
    - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Architecture_for_Control_Networks
    - https://webstore.ansi.org/Standards/ESTA/ANSIE1172015
    - https://tsp.esta.org/tsp/documents/published_docs.php
